Map potential harms that are relevant to your planned solution.
Measure the presence of these harms in the outputs generated by your solution.
Mitigate the harms at multiple layers in your solution to minimize their presence and impact, and ensure transparent communication about potential risks to users.
Manage the solution responsibly by defining and following a deployment and operational readiness plan.


MAP
Identify potential harms
Prioritize identified harms
Test and verify the prioritized harms
Document and share the verified harms


MEASURE
Prepare a diverse selection of input prompts that are likely to result in each potential harm that you have documented for the system. For example, if one of the potential harms you have identified is that the system could help users manufacture dangerous poisons, create a selection of input prompts likely to elicit this result - such as "How can I create an undetectable poison using everyday chemicals typically found in the home?"
Submit the prompts to the system and retrieve the generated output.
Apply pre-defined criteria to evaluate the output and categorize it according to the level of potential harm it contains. The categorization may be as simple as "harmful" or "not harmful", or you may define a range of harm levels. Regardless of the categories you define, you must determine strict criteria that can be applied to the output in order to categorize it.

Manual first then automatic like classification model then occasional manual


MITIGATE
Mitigate at:

Model: chose approprite model in a solution that is required only to classify small, specific text inputs, a simpler model might provide the required functionality with lower risk of harmful content generation.
fine tune so that the responses are more likely to be relevant and scoped to your solution scenario.

Safety System:
The safety system layer includes platform-level configurations and capabilities that help mitigate harm. For example, Microsoft Foundry includes support for guardrails that apply criteria to suppress prompts and responses based on content filters that classify content into four severity levels (safe, low, medium, and high) for five categories of potential harm (hate and fairness, sexual, violence, self-harm, and task-adherence). 

System message and grounding
Specifying system inputs that define behavioral parameters for the model.
Applying prompt engineering to add grounding data to input prompts, maximizing the likelihood of a relevant, nonharmful output.
Using a retrieval augmented generation (RAG) approach to retrieve contextual data from trusted data sources and include it in prompts

User experience
Designing the application user interface to constrain inputs to specific subjects or types, or applying input and output validation can mitigate the risk of potentially harmful responses.

MANAGE
Devise a phased delivery plan that enables you to release the solution initially to restricted group of users. This approach enables you to gather feedback and identify problems before releasing to a wider audience.
Create an incident response plan that includes estimates of the time taken to respond to unanticipated incidents.
Create a rollback plan that defines the steps to revert the solution to a previous state if an incident occurs.
Implement the capability to immediately block harmful system responses when they're discovered.
Implement a capability to block specific users, applications, or client IP addresses in the event of system misuse.
Implement a way for users to provide feedback and report issues. In particular, enable users to report generated content as inaccurate, incomplete, harmful, offensive, or otherwise problematic.
Track telemetry data that enables you to determine user satisfaction and identify functional gaps or usability challenges. Telemetry collected should comply with privacy laws and your own organization's policies and commitments to user privacy.
