Data sourcing
Base Model selection

Providing the latest data is essential when developing our LLM application. This data serves as the fuel that powers the reasoning capabilities of the model.
Data sourcing involves identifying needs, finding sources, and ensuring accessibility of the data we want to use. Three questions will guide us.

- Is the data relevant? This involves identifying the right information from internal or external sources.
- Is the data available? Sometimes, we need to transform the data to make it ready. Additional databases might be needed for text data searchability.
Evaluating costs, particularly for external data, is crucial as accessing it may incur charges. Finally, consider access limitations related to volume or frequency.
- Does the data meet standards? These standards may concern quality and governance. If the data contains confidential or sensitive information, it could impact the
choice of base model, since we might need to guarantee that it remains within the organization.


Proprietary model vs open source
Proprietary models are privately owned.
A crucial consideration is whether exposing data to a third-party is acceptable, since proprietary models cannot be hosted within the confines of the organization.
Some advantages of proprietary options are ease of set-up and use, quality assurance, and guarantees on reliability, speed and availability, but requires us to expose
our data and offer limited customization.

Open-source options offer advantages such as in-house hosting, transparency, and full customizability. However, they offer limited support and do not always allow commercial use.
Moreover, customizing these models requires dedicated AI engineers

Eevaluating factors after model selection involves in four categories: performance, model characteristics, practical considerations, and less important secondary factors.
- For performance, we should consider the response quality, often better with the latest released models, and speed, crucial for real-time applications.
- For model characteristics, consider the data that was used to train the model, ranging from webpages to codebases, affecting the responses we might expect.
The context window size refers to the number of words a model uses to predict a next word, influencing quality. Finally, fine-tunability allows developers to
optionally adjust the model for better performance.
- For practical considerations, consider the type of license associated with the model, especially relevant for open-source models with commercial restrictions.
The cost and the environmental impact should also be considered.
- Finally, there are less important secondary factors like number of parameters and popularity. These are often indicators for quality, speed, cost, and power usage.
